# Quick authentification concept

There is the source code of the website in this repo. But there is the concept explained in the website :

## Intro

This is a authentification concept initially created for a mobile application ( Five Seconds, not available yet).
This concept allows to keep user logic in an application (any kind) but remove the "sign up", "sign in" for the user. More friendly for the user, simple to integrate and the same "user logic" in your code.

## The problem. in the classic auth concept.

The classic auth concept (email / password) is easy to develop and everyone know how it works but it have many problems. 

- Many people use an unsophisticated password. Easy to find or to hack. 

- Not suitable for mobile interfaces. Time wasting, the users will remove the app. They will sign up only if they really want to use it. It's easy to loose a user because of this. But you can't remove it because you need to authenticate your users. 

- Laborious to access to an app (any kind). The user must sign up and then, login. It takes too much time.

## The concept.

In this concept, we assume that the base of the digital identity of a person is his e-mail address. There is one single form used for sign up and login. In this form, we only ask for the email address. 

If a user uses the app for the first time, he just need to write his email and then, he is signed up and logged ! 
Else, if he is already a user but logged out, we send him a password generated by email to authenticate him. Then, he is logged. 

In fact, this concept is mainly designed for mobile application but not only. Then, a user will rarely logout on mobile. So, he just write his email one single time and he is signed up and logged in. 

## Security. same as before.

The most important security breach is the user's email account. If someone hack his email, the hacker is able to login in your app. But the breach exists in the classical authentification concept with "I forgot my password". Then, it's the same as before. 

- The password sent by email can be used one single time. It's generated when the user wants to login. 
- The password can't (or not easely) be attacked by brute-force because it's sophisticated. 

In fact, I think this system can be used for most of the mobile application but for security reasons, I dont think it's a good idea for application that contains sensitive informations.

## For users. quick and easy.

With this authentification concept, the time until the moment when the user launch the application and the moment when he uses it is really quick. The user can't be discouraged because of the authentification process. In most of the cases, you user will never logout and will never use the email authentification process. Maybe if he wants to use his account on another device. 

So, there is no sign up, login system. It's the same form for both !

## Technically. easy to develop.

Technically, you can code this concept the same way you could do with a classic auth system. Using an API or not. Most importantly, with this you keep a "user logic" in your code. If you want more information about the user, you can ask him later but not during the sign up process.

## Licence

Concept by William AGAY. With the licence "you are free to use this idea, customize it but please, keep me in touch" !